Patch 10 (#6368)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/global-configs/databricks-changes.md

---
title: "Databricks adapter behavior changes"
id: "databricks-changes"
sidebar: "Databricks"
---

The following are the current [behavior change flags](/docs/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes.md#behavior-change-flags) that are specific to `dbt-databricks`:

> | Flag                          | `dbt-databricks`: Intro | `dbt-databricks`: Maturity |

Reviewer: @amychen1776 and @benc-db If we're going to add this table, can we handle it the same as we do the [Core behavior change table](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) and include the dbt Cloud intro and maturity dates?

Reviewer: We can take this as a follow up

Reviewer 2: @matthewshaver sorry for the delay - I want to do this like the core approach with cloud maturity but it would be difficult for Ben to maintain that because he doesn't know what dbt cloud bundles are picking up the adapter so for ease of maintenance, let's not do that for now.

---
title: "Databricks adapter behavior changes"
id: "databricks-changes"
sidebar: "Databricks"
---

## Behavior Changes

Here are the current [behavior change flags](/docs/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes.md#behavior-change-flags) that are specific to `dbt-databricks`:

> | Flag                          | `dbt-databricks`: Intro | `dbt-databricks`: Maturity |

Reviewer 2: what do you mean by dbt-databricks intro vs maturity? I would not break this down in this manner. You can say that this was introduced in 1.9 and then eventually when this becomes the default behavior, we will move this out as a behavior flag and it will be just part of the default dbt-databricks behavior in future releases.

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this table and break down by individual flags

Author: This is following the table that dbt-core has to summarize behavior flags.

Reviewer: @benc-db  If we're going to add this table, can we handle it the same as we do the [Core behavior change table](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) and include the dbt Cloud intro and permanent dates?

| ----------------------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `use_info_schema_for_columns` | 1.9.0                   | TBD                        |
| `use_user_folder_for_python`  | 1.9.0                   | TBD                        |

### Use information schema for columns

The `use_info_schema_for_columns` flag is `False` by default.
Setting this flag to `True` will use `information_schema`, rather than `describe extended`, to get column metadata for Unity Catalog tables.
This setting is to avoid issues where `describe extended` truncates type information when the type is a complex struct;
however, this setting is not ready to be default behavior, as in order to ensure that `information_schema` is complete, we must run `REPAIR TABLE {{relation}} SYNC METADATA` prior to querying, which adds overhead.

> This flag cannot be considered for maturity until we no longer need to add this overhead to every incremental materialization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `use_info_schema_for_columns` flag is `False` by default.
Setting this flag to `True` will use `information_schema`, rather than `describe extended`, to get column metadata for Unity Catalog tables.
This setting is to avoid issues where `describe extended` truncates type information when the type is a complex struct. However, this setting is not ready to be the default behavior, as there is a performance impact due to a Databricks metadata limitation. This is due to 
the need to run `REPAIR TABLE {{relation}} SYNC METADATA` prior to querying in order to ensure the `information_schema` is complete. 
This flag will become the default behavior when this additional query is no longer needed. 
```

### Use user's folder for Python model notebooks

The `use_user_folder_for_python` flag is `False` by default, and results in writing uploaded python model notebooks to `/Shared/dbt_python_models/{{schema}}/`.
Setting this flag to `True` will instead write notebooks to `/Users/{{current user}}/{{catalog}}/{{schema}}/`

> Writing to the `Shared` folder is being deprecated by Databricks as not following governance best practices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Writing to the `Shared` folder is being deprecated by Databricks as it does not align with governance best practices.
```
